So we have learned about nested if statements so we will use that in the program.
So one example program is here.
This is to check the nature of the roots of quadratic equation first i will explain what does it mean
and then I'll show you a program using nested if, see here I have got a quadratic equation, a equation whose
degree is two is called as quadratic X squared plus X plus nothing.
That is 1 So a X square plus b x plus c is equal to zero.
If it is zero equal to zero then you can find the roots.
So then only it is called as equation that is quadratic equation.
We already learned in the previous videos but again i am repeating it. then roots,
What is the formula.
every student knows this one.
The formula is minus B plus or minus square root of  minus b square  minus 4 a c by 2 a is the formula.
Now if you know the values of ABC you can substitute them here and you can get the root, and for getting
the root.
Another time we take minus we get another root.
So actually we get two routes right because this is quadratic.
So two values of X are possible.
No let us come to the point see inside this root if B square minus four AC is becoming 0 or if this
whole thing is a zero then what happens minus B plus zero or minus B minus zero.
It's the same thing only, so zero has no value if b squared minus 4 a c as he has became zero zero has
no value.
Whether you take.
Plus or minus you get the same answer, what is  that minus b by the 2 you get the same answer
minus b by 2a.
So that value is zero.
So this means if you take both the roots, both the roots are same only because if you take plus zero
also you get the same answer minus zero also same answer.
So it looks like this minus B plus zero.
By 2 a or minus B minus zero by 2a. see zero has no value.
So both the roots are same only, so both the routes will be equal means this B squared minus four
AC for it is zero then would that also be equal.
that's it.  then, one more time if that B square minus 4ac is than zero, let's say
Example Let's say we got minus five.
Do you know the root of minus five.
No we cannot find the route of minus five.
So it means we cannot know the routes.
Then what do you call if you have a root to another minus one.
We send them what is imaginary imaginary.
We don't know the answer so we cannot find the roots so we learn two things.
If that portion is zero, roots are same only. if that portion is negative we cannot find routes if it is
positive then we have two routes and they are not saying they are different.
So that's what look at this now.
Look at this now discriminant.
So this b square minus 4ac means discriminant.
Let us say d,now that d is zero means roots are real and equal
That's what I said they are equal and if d is greater than zero means they are real but they
are not equal they will be different. third one,
If d is less than zero means they are not real they are imaginary.
So if you have any quadratic equations, there are three different natures of quadratic equation roots of quadratic
equation they may be real and equal.
they may be real and unequal.
They may be imaginary.
So if else then if else, like this we have a case here.
So we have to do nested if so let us write on the program directly.
So here inside the program I have variable for ABCD and the roots also ABC for the coefficient
of this quadratic equation on ABC, and these for discriminant and root 1 and 2 for finding 2 roots.
Now already I have taken the ABC 3 values then here first out discriminant.
So let us find our discriminant.
d is assigned with B square that is b*b minus 4aC that is 4*a*c we got the
discriminant
Next.
No I have to write if and else, first one.
If this  D is equal to zero, means roots are equal and real.
So I will give a message C out.
roots are real and equal.
roots are real and equal I will finish writing.
Then after this I want to display roots also.
That is minus B by 2a.
So here next line, see here
After this I should write endl
And then what there is no space overlaid here.
You can even write and then in the beginning of the display part also.
Show endl, what I should display when the roos are equal minus B by 2a so directly i will write
down here minus B divided by two in two A and this should be in the bracket and this entire thing also
if it is in brackets.
That's better.
So this entire result you get, roots are real and equal.
then you get the result.  it is single value because they are equal.
This is inside if d is equal to zero.
If d is not zero then what it could be, greater than zero, less than zero.
So let us write for, greater than zero. else,
So here itself I can write on if d the greater than zero, actually I can write flower bracket inside the
bracket also I can write because just after else I have if so I can make it here itself.
Then if d is greater than zero then I will cout the roots are real and unequal so I will write down this one
roots are real and unequal.
Then I will display both the roots so first is endl, I will display them in a new line.
Then first roots is minus B plus sqrt of d then this whole thing divided by
2*a
This is one result then again, Cout
And endl, this whole thing as it is just right minus here.
so this is for positive and this for negative I don't have to write on this completely already.
We have done that in the previous video in the beginning videos so that same forum that you can write
on here like the at last at last.
else means if this is not equal, this is not the creator then else.
So here else I have only single statement so say cout, imaginary.
scribling  here because there is no space.
So you can understand this, it is imaginary.
So I guess you have understood how to write on this one.
So write a program by yourself and also there is a demo available.
This is for displaying the nature of the roots as well as you are displaying the roots.
So that's all in this video.